hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is a video on the MSI vortex so
this is that tiny cylindrical PC that
appeared at CES and when I first saw it
I thought I really need to get one in
because it's super cool but it's also
obviously inspired by the Mac Pro which
is my daily driver except it's a PC and
it's geared towards gamers both good
things right so to begin this video I
need to talk about why I like to use the
Mac Pro it's actually one of the most
overpriced pieces of technology out
there I mean it has Pro oriented
hardware in there ECC memory Intel Xeon
chips and a pair of workstation graphics
cards but it comes at a very steep cost
and if you purchased it on launch date
it was already expensive two and a half
years later it's the same hardware but
it's not any cheaper so right now it's
comically overpriced but there are two
features that kind of make it special or
at least special enough for me to
continue using it every day
first is the form factor it's super
small a full-size ATX case is maybe 50
60 liters something smaller like a micro
ATX is around 40 litres and even the
smallest ITX cases that can hold a full
sized graphics card those are at least
10 to 12 litres and it's tough to cool a
system that small the Mac Pro is 5 and
1/2 liters it's very small and properly
cooled the other feature for me is
silence see the Mac Pro on idle and even
under a moderate load is essentially
silent the fan is so quiet that you
can't hear it when it's on I have to put
my hand over it to check for airflow now
most people don't care a lot about this
stuff they don't care about case size or
fan noise and for them the Mac Pro is a
complete ripoff and I get it if you're
chasing good performance for the money
this is seriously one of the worst
computers you can buy but if you want
something powerful that's abnormally
small and actually silent the Mac Pro is
here to steal your money but now we have
the MSI vortex slightly bigger than a
Mac Pro but still super small at six and
a half meters there is no workstation
hardware inside and instead you have
premium gaming components it comes in
two variants both of them have
SSDs and raid0 a hard drive a sky like
6700 K but one version has 16 gigs of
RAM with a pair of GTX 960 s and the
second version which is the review unit
here has 32 gigs of ram and a pair of
gtx 980 s this one is VR ready but
they're both very expensive the design
is pretty unique it's a plastic
enclosure that feels really durable and
it has RGB LEDs that you can control in
software similar to the Mac Pro it has a
turbine looking fan at the top and this
is the one and only fan in the system
four ports there are some audio ports up
top four USB threes a pair of HDMI 1.4 s
a pair of ethernet jacks and on the
bottom we have some Thunderbolt 3s and
mini display boards the vortex can do
triple monitor surround and a six Queen
setup if your cloning so the hardware
combination that's inside this review
unit has been benchmarked many times I'm
not going to get into too many details
but it's a desktop skylake i7 with a
pair of desktop gtx 980 s running an SLI
eight gigs of video ram it's going to
crush games even at 4k but I am
interested in the thermal performance
and fan noise at the base clock speed of
4 gigahertz the CPU didn't throttle down
when I was running a CPU benchmark the
fans get loud but there's no throttling
it's nicely cooled the CPU temperature
was in the low 90s overclocking is super
easy it's just a couple of clicks but
when I'm running the max overclock of
4.6 gigahertz there was some throttling
not a lot but it is noticeable the GTX
980 s when they're at max load they sit
around 75 degrees also very respectable
as for fan noise it's quiet when it's
idling but it's not silent and I was
kind of disappointed about this I know
it shouldn't be it's hard to compare the
thermal output between two different
systems but I've been spoiled by thump
AK Pro and I was hopeful but considering
the amount of heat that comes out of a
pair of GTX 980 s it's actually very
impressive fan noise even onload isn't
too bad and you can still comfortably
play games with speakers the last thing
I want to touch on is upgradability the
RAM and all the storage drives are
upgradeable they're not the easiest
access but it is doable and you'll
likely be able to upgrade the CPU to the
next generation KB light chips but the
graphics cards you can physically remove
them and replace them but they use MXM
and even if they do make next-gen Pascal
versions of these they're going to be
more expensive than regular desktop
cards so keep that in mind okay here's
the thing when I saw the vortex at CES I
remember thinking was a really cool
looking product and I was interested in
it but I didn't think it'd be a strong
performer I thought that MSI had just
made this really cool-looking computer
shut off to the world and was like hey
we can make one of these tubes too
I was very wrong they nailed it the
performance is good as a full-size
desktop PC and the thermal management is
fantastic the thing that isn't fantastic
is the price now it is a custom
engineered product so something like
this is kind of hard to gauge its value
it's a fully custom engineered solution
the casing the chassis the power supply
the PCBs for the motherboard everything
is completely custom so it can fit into
this super tiny case if you're looking
for a powerful gaming machine the size
of a mac pro this is an awesome choice
you just got to be ready to pay up a
little bit that's the end of this video
give me some thumbs we liked it
subs we loved it it's been nice I'll see
you guys next time